NATIONAL PARIVAR MEDICLAIM PLUS POLICY

SECTION 1: DEFINITIONS

1.1 HOSPITAL/NURSING HOME means any institution in India established for indoor care and treatment of sickness and injuries and which
Either
(a) has been registered as a Hospital or Nursing Home with the local authorities and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified Medical Practitioner.
Or
(b) Should comply with minimum criteria as under:-
i) It should have at least 15 inpatient beds. (In Class 'C' towns where the population is less than 10 lacs, the number of beds should be 10).
ii) Fully equipped operation theatre of its own wherever surgical operations are carried out.
iii) Fully qualified Nursing Staff under its employment round the clock.
iv) Fully qualified Doctor(s) should be in-charge round the clock.

1.2 HOSPITALISATION PERIOD means the period for which an insured person is admitted to the hospital as inpatient for the disease/disability covered under the policy.

1.3 PRE-HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES means relevant medical expenses incurred during the period up to 30 days prior to hospitalisation on disease/illness/injury sustained which will be covered under the Policy.

1.4 POST HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES means relevant medical expenses incurred during the period up to 60 days after hospitalisation on disease/illness/injury sustained which will be covered under the Policy.

1.5 MEDICAL PRACTITIONER means a person who holds a degree/diploma of a recognized institution and is registered by Medical Council of respective State of India. The term Medical Practitioner would include Physician, Specialist and Surgeon.

1.6 QUALIFIED NURSE means a person who holds a certificate of a recognized Nursing Council and who is employed on recommendation of the attending Medical Practitioner.

1.7 PRE-EXISTING DISEASE (PED) means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement.

SECTION 2: COVERAGE

2.1 HOSPITALISATION BENEFIT
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise expressed, that if during the period stated in the Schedule, any insured person shall contract any disease or suffer from any illness (hereinafter called DISEASE) or sustain any bodily injury through accident (hereinafter called INJURY) and if such disease or injury shall require any such insured person, to be hospitalised for minimum period of 24 hours as an inpatient in any Hospital/Nursing Home in India (hereinafter called HOSPITAL) for the purpose of active treatment of the insured person, then the Company will pay to the Insured Person the amount of such expenses as are reasonably and necessarily incurred in respect thereof by or on behalf of such Insured Person but not exceeding the Sum Insured in aggregate in any one period of insurance stated in the schedule hereto.

2.2 AYUSH TREATMENT
The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for inpatient care treatment under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicines during each Policy Year up to the limit of sum insured as specified in the policy schedule in any AYUSH Hospital.

2.3 MATERNITY EXPENSES BENEFIT EXTENSION
The maximum benefit allowable under this clause will be up to Rs. 50,000/- or 10% of the Sum Insured opted by the member whichever is lower.
The Maternity Expenses Benefit is limited to cover two deliveries or terminations as defined in the terms and conditions during the entire tenure of the policy with the Company.
Special conditions applicable to Maternity Expenses Benefit Extension:
1. These benefits are admissible only if the expenses are incurred in Hospital/Nursing Home as in-patients in India.
2. A waiting period of 9 months is applicable for payment of any claim relating to normal delivery or caesarean section or abdominal operation for extra uterine pregnancy. The waiting period may be relaxed only in case of delivery, miscarriage or abortion induced by accident or other medical emergency.
3. Claim in respect of delivery for only first two children and/or operations associated therewith will be considered in respect of any one Insured Person covered under the policy or any renewal thereof. Those Insured Persons who are already having two or more living children will not be eligible for this benefit.
4. Expenses incurred in connection with voluntary medical termination of pregnancy during the first 12 weeks from the date of conception are not covered.
5. Pre-natal and post-natal expenses are not covered unless admitted in Hospital/Nursing Home and treatment is taken there.

2.4 ORGAN DONOR EXPENSES
The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for hospitalization of the organ donor during the course of organ transplant to the insured person provided that:
i. The organ donor is any person whose organ has been made available in accordance and in compliance with THE TRANSPLANTATION OF HUMAN ORGANS (AMENDMENT) BILL, 2011 and the organ donated is for the use of the insured person, and
ii. We have accepted an inpatient Hospitalization claim for the insured person under In Patient Hospitalization Treatment (Section 2.1).

SECTION 3: WAITING PERIODS AND EXCLUSIONS

3.1 PRE-EXISTING DISEASES (Code- Excl01)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with us.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase.
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by us.

3.2 SPECIFIC WAITING PERIOD (Code- Excl02)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the following listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage, as may be the case after the date of inception of the first policy with the insurer. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an accident.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase.
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or declared and accepted without a specific exclusion.
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
f) List of specific diseases/procedures:
1. All Diseases of Prostate requiring surgical intervention
2. All types of Hernia
3. Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy
4. All types of Hydrocele
5. Congenital Internal disease/defect
6. Fistulae in anus
7. Piles
8. Sinusitis and related disorders
9. Fissure in ano
10. Cataract
11. Benign Lumps/growths in any part of the body
12. Joint replacement due to Degenerative condition
13. Gout and Rheumatism
14. Hypertension
15. Diabetes and its related complications

3.3 WAITING PERIOD FOR SPECIFIC DISEASES
A waiting period of 24 months from the date of commencement of cover of the insured person shall apply to any medical expenses in connection with all diseases/surgeries of Ear, Nose, Throat, Dental, Gynecological, Genito-urinary system, unless otherwise stated.

3.4 WAITING PERIOD FOR CATARACT
A waiting period of 2 years from the date of commencement of cover of the insured person shall apply to the treatment of Cataract.

SECTION 4: GENERAL CONDITIONS

4.1 GRACE PERIOD
A grace period of 30 days is allowed for renewal of the policy. This will be counted from the due date of renewal and the policy shall be considered as continuous for the purpose of all waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases.

4.2 NO CLAIM DISCOUNT
The insured shall be entitled for a No Claim Discount of 5% on the base premium, on renewal of the policy after every claim free year, provided the policy has been renewed without a break. The maximum discount allowable is 5% of the base premium. The discount will be given on the base premium only.

4.3 PREVENTIVE HEALTH CHECK-UP
Expenses incurred for preventive health check-up will be reimbursed at the end of a block of 2 policy years subject to a maximum of:
a) Rs. 2,000/- for policies with Sum Insured up to Rs. 2 lacs
b) Rs. 4,000/- for policies with Sum Insured above Rs. 2 lacs
This benefit shall be available to the insured person after a waiting period of 1 year from the inception of the first policy with us.

4.4 ROOM RENT CAPPING
For Plan A, the daily room rent is capped at 1% of the Sum Insured, and ICU charges are capped at 2% of the Sum Insured. These limits do not apply if the treatment is for a listed procedure in a Preferred Provider Network (PPN).